[up-tempo Europop music playing]
[keypad dialing]
It's done. He's down.
[gasping]
[in German] Hold on.
Just hold on.
You're going to be okay, Liam.
What's going on?
We were just having coffee.
He said his chest hurt,
that he couldn't breathe.
It happened so fast.
He's got fluid in his lungs.
-Possible acute pulmonary edema.
-He collapsed.
Let's get him into the van.
He needs oxygen.
Ma'am, stay here.
Stay here.
Please, hold still, sir.
[suspenseful music playing]
What are you doing?
Why are you restraining me?
[driver in English] He's onboard.
Tell her we're en route. Ten minutes out.
[in German] Why are you doing this?
Where is he?
What? What's going on?
The patient, is he inside?
No, what? They were already here.
[paramedic] Who was already here?
The medics.
We are the medics.
[groans]
You're hurting me!
[in English] They say the heretic's fork
exposes the sinner.
Makes him renounce his sins.
What do you renounce, Mr. Bracker?
Hmm?
Let me help you.
[gasping]
Your cartel has expanded
into territory that isn't yours.
My employer can't allow that.
[in English] We'll stop.
-We'll stop.
-Oh...
I know you'll stop.
As of this moment...
you're out of business.
But that's not why you're here.
You're going to tell me all
the relevant details of your operation.
[cell phone buzzing]
-Every runner, every financier--
-[clears throat]
-He says it can't wait.
-Hmm.
I'll be with you shortly.
I was about to phone you.
We're ready to start the uplink.
-Change of plans.
-What does that mean?
It means I need you here in the U.S.
It's a...
It's a matter of some urgency.
["Summer Winds" playing]
You can't be here. They'll see you.
I once dropped acid with Allen Ginsberg.
We spent a glorious afternoon in SoHo...
just tumbling.
[Bobby] I know what you want,
but I can't help you.
I miss that gentleness.
♪ Summer winds are softly blowing ♪
You're a service provider, Bobby.
I put you on the payroll
to provide a service,
information on Townsend.
You're laundering his money
out of a laundromat,
which is, in itself, entertaining,
but I also know
you're skimming off the top.
Not true.
You're definitely stealing from Townsend.
And while I admire your chutzpah,
I can't help but think that if I know
you're stealing from Townsend...
it's just a matter of time.
So tell me where I can find him
or where I can find someone who can.
I don't know where he is.
But I know where his money goes.
Once it's cleaned,
I make a series of deposits.
Who gets the biggest one?
A woman.
Laken Perillos.
Perillos? The Brazen Bull.
What?
-Go on.
-I don't know who Perillos is,
but I assume if you could get to her,
she could help you find Townsend.
And where is she?
In the States.
I was told that she came in last night.
That's all that I know.
[door opens]
That was Ruddiger.
He thinks he has something for us.
You know what they call
a money launderer who can't be trusted?
A bad investment.
Get out of here.
[line ringing]
I have a lead.
Townsend.
An arrest warrant
has been issued for Elizabeth.
-That's a mistake.
-No. It's a tragedy.
I can tell you how to get to Townsend.
The only person I'm focused
on getting to is Elizabeth.
That's not helped by going after
the person whose sister she killed.
Elizabeth killed Mary Bremmer
at Townsend's instruction.
-Townsend wanted his sister killed?
-No. But you had her in custody,
so he ordered the hit
to keep her from talking
and as a test of Elizabeth's allegiance.
Keen and Townsend are allies?
I thought she wanted him dead.
A desire she's put on hold
so they can join forces and come after me.
If I follow your lead
and go after Townsend,
I could get to Elizabeth?
Tell me, Harold, what do you know
about the Brazen Bull?
[Aram] A metal bull, used to torture
and execute people?
[Cooper] According to legend, yes.
The condemned were locked inside
while a fire was set beneath it.
That is brazen,
but how's a Greek torture device relevant?
[Cooper] The bull was invented
by Perillos of Athens,
a student of pain and
the eponymous namesake of Laken Perillos,
the woman Townsend employs to inflict pain
on his victims to extract information.
Reddington believes Perillos
can lead us to Townsend,
and Townsend can lead us to Keen.
Not after she killed his sister.
That's what Townsend wanted her to do,
as a test of her loyalty.
Mr. Reddington says Liz
is working with Townsend?
-This is impossible.
-I hope you're right.
There's only one way to find out.
[Park] What do we know about Perillos?
[Cooper] Very little,
except that she's brutal and effective.
She came onto the scene six years ago.
At that time, Antonio Bastinado,
Dominic Morgan
and Andres Gataki controlled the ships
that carried nearly all contraband
coming through the Bosporus.
How they managed it
was a tightly-guarded secret
until Perillos got hold of them.
Now they're dead,
Townsend controls the strait,
and examples of Perillos' handiwork
keep people in line.
Liz doesn't know Townsend sanctioned this.
She can't know. Right?
Did Reddington give a lead?
He gave me the one victim
Perillos didn't kill.
Name's Roman Einhorn,
has an estate in Westchester.
Reddington says Perillos left him alive
as a warning to others.
-What kind?
-You'll see when you talk to him.
Or try to.
[ominous music playing]
This is a waste of time.
He doesn't wanna see you.
He doesn't have a choice.
Mr. Einhorn hasn't accepted guests
in almost two years.
We're not his guests.
We're the FBI. He has no choice.
What did they tell you about him?
We know he was maimed.
We're trying to find who's responsible.
The gaze interaction
can be slow to respond.
He gets frustrated.
You need to be patient.
[computer voice] I remember nothing.
[Ressler] Mr. Einhorn,
we understand your apprehension.
We're trying to help.
He told you,
Mr. Einhorn doesn't want your help.
Mr. Einhorn,
Dr. Perillos isn't just mutilating people,
she's murdering them.
You're the only person
who survived her torture,
the only one who's seen her face.
We need your help to stop her.
[computer voice] What happened to me
six years ago was a warning,
an illustration to others
who question her limits.
I was told that if I assist the police,
the doctor would come back
to finish what she started.
This was her promise to me.
And so as I said to you before,
I know nothing.
Ruddiger!
-How are you, my friend?
-Raymond, good to see you. Dembe.
[sniffs] Smells.
What happened to your hand?
Oh, uh... Car door, I was cooked.
Nearly lost my pinky.
You gotta be careful, Max.
I need you with all ten digits.
-That does smell.
-[Ruddiger] Yeah.
What did you find?
The car bomb that killed your man in Lagos
was breathtaking.
Large detonation wave,
secondary explosion.
Our friends at A Command
said they found ammonium nitrate crystals
in the post-blast remains.
-Sounds bloody awful.
-Yeah.
What's the lead?
A partial print on the Tamiya connector.
I'll get it to Cvetko.
Who could do this, Raymond?
Not Elizabeth, I'm sure.
Not on her own, no.
I'm afraid Elizabeth
has enlisted Neville Townsend
to weaponize the various details
she's come to learn about my organization.
Cvetko, it's Dembe.
What the hell is that smell, anyway?
It's dreadful.
Oh, I'm working on
a cyclohexane-based accelerant.
Low flash point, stable,
and a real pain in the butt
to any forensic chemical analysts.
Thank you, Cvetko.
We'll have it to you today.
[dramatic music playing]
Raymond?
-Raymond, I think we should go.
-[tires screeching]
[gunshots]
Raymond, go!
Get him out of here!
[grunts]
Go, go, go!
[man 1] Where is he?
Where is he? Reddington?
I don't know.
[man 2] Search the building.
We know he's here.
[man 1] Get him in the van!
[police siren wailing]
[man 2] Warehouse is clear. No sign.
Let's go.
Move it. Move it.
Get in.
[Ressler] We're here now,
securing the scene. But back up.
-Tell me what happened.
-It was an ambush, heavily armed.
-What about a vehicle?
-A van, white Ford.
-Four or five men.
-Faces? Accents?
I don't know. They were masked,
and I didn't hear them speak.
Come on, it was her, Donald.
We don't know that.
You got a lot of enemies.
Besides, Keen wouldn't target Dembe.
I've lost any perspective
of what Agent Keen is capable of.
I only know that we need
to get Dembe back,
because if he is in the hands of Perillos,
it won't matter what Agent Keen wants,
only how long he can survive.
We'll find him.
Call me back as soon as you know more.
[Park] Ressler.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Ressler] Headlight trim from the van.
It's a start.
[dramatic music playing]
[Perillos] Mm.
Look at you.
So you're the one they call... Dembe.
Quite a collection, isn't it?
Each one teaches me something about pain.
How to alleviate it...
or inflict it.
When I was 12,
my mother went to the hospital
with a neural infection
that was misdiagnosed
as a strained muscle.
She was given ibuprofen
and sent home with an infection
that left her in excruciating pain
and bedridden for the rest of her life.
What caused the misdiagnosis?
-[Dembe grunts]
-The color of her skin.
The belief, even by some doctors,
that Blacks feel less pain than whites.
Thick skin, biology, breeding...
lies that lead to Black patients receiving
far fewer pain meds than white patients.
But we know the truth, don't we, Dembe?
We know all about pain, don't we?
It's called a heretic's fork.
It was used during the Spanish Inquisition
to extract confessions,
break the human spirit.
Tell the truth,
or sooner or later, you'll bleed to death.
It's inscribed
with the Latin word "abiuro,"
which means to swear or take an oath.
Will you do that for me, Dembe?
Swear to tell me everything you know
about the Sikorsky Archive?
I won't lie.
I swear I won't tell you anything.
Oh, I think you will.
[cell phone ringing]
Tell me you found something.
[Ressler] We think we found the van
used in the abduction.
It's missing a piece of the headlight trim
we found at the scene.
What about Dembe?
Does the van tell you anything
about where they took him?
We're waiting on the lab,
but it's unlikely.
The vehicle was torched,
MPD is doing a search now.
Lab services should have a report
within 24 hours, maybe less.
We don't have that time.
I'm telling you what we know.
Yeah. Thank you, Donald.
[women shrieking]
Look-- Look, please--
No.
You betrayed us.
-You heard Dembe talking about Ruddiger.
-No.
-You knew where we were gonna be.
You set us up.
[phone ringing]
I think you better answer that.
[man] Operator 627, Ward West.
Ward West. Briargate confirm.
We have a code-red alarm indicator.
Do you have a breach?
Yes, there's been a breach. By me.
Here's what happens next.
I'm gonna give you a phone number,
you're gonna pass it up the food chain
to your boss.
Tell Neville Townsend
it's Raymond Reddington.
Tell him to call me in 20 minutes
at 202-555-0184.
It's a conversation he won't wanna miss.
[Bobby grunts and women yelling]
I'll get you a cane to remember me by.
My apologies, ladies.
[Townsend] Hello, Mr. Zuma.
I'm sorry we had to meet like this,
but I've found this process to be both
efficient and effective for all involved.
I'm going to ask you some questions,
you're going to answer.
If you waver, Dr. Perillos will help
encourage your cooperation.
Let's begin with the Sikorsky Archive.
Does Reddington have it?
Now, Mr. Zuma, I need an answer.
No? Nothing?
The Irukandji jellyfish is found
off the coast of Australia.
Its sting is only mildly irritating.
But within half an hour,
its venom induces excruciating
muscle cramps, severe back pain,
and a burning sensation
in the skin and face,
headaches, sweating, nausea.
It's called Irukandji syndrome.
The pain, combined with an increase
in heart rate and blood pressure,
causes a feeling of impending doom.
Chances are...
you just may want to impale yourself
to ease the pain.
Mr. Zuma, shall we discuss
the Sikorsky Archive,
or do you need some encouragement?
Bad choice, Mr. Zuma.
Don't say I didn't warn you.
Doctor, I'll give the two of you
some time together.
-What is it?
-Reddington. He's made contact.
[cell phone ringing]
Dembe Zuma. I want him back.
I'm sure you do.
Keen tells me he knows all your secrets.
Elizabeth would never hurt Dembe.
I want the archive.
At what cost? A war with me?
Have you thought about what that means?
All I've thought about recently
is the fact that you killed my family.
I don't know
what Elizabeth is telling you,
but Katarina Rostova killed your family,
and I killed her.
That alone should be enough
for us to peacefully co-exist.
A fact we can discuss in person
once you accept my offer.
What kind of offer?
For Dembe.
Me for him.
-A trade?
-Yes.
-And then an uprising.
-[Townsend chuckles]
Your people,
rallying around your sacrifice?
I had no idea you were such a romantic.
Oh, my goodness, yes.
I have many "thoughts that do often
lie too deep for tears."
At the moment, the main one
being to put a bullet in your forehead.
Do we have a deal?
We do. I'll call you back
with the where and when.
[groaning]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Perillos] I wasn't making it up.
About the doctors.
In 2016, 222 white doctors
at the University of Virginia
were given mock medical files
of a white patient and a Black patient,
and asked to gauge their pain
on a scale of one to ten.
They underestimated
the Black patient's pain because--
Now, these are doctors.
--they said they thought Black people
had less sensitive nerve endings.
Why is it that white people
don't see our pain?
I know Townsend doesn't see mine.
What about Reddington?
Does he see yours?
I know who you are to him.
What you do for him.
The secrets you keep.
Like you're doing now,
not telling me about the archive.
Does he know what pain that causes you?
I don't mean this pain,
anyone can see that.
I mean, inside.
The pain in your heart.
Can he see that?
-You can stop.
-Excuse me?
-We're making a trade.
-For whom?
Who could know the archive more than Zuma?
Raymond.
He's not doing this to save you.
He's doing it to save himself.
He...
He does feel my pain.
Does he, now?
Good.
-Then maybe he'll feel this.
-[yelling]
[bell dings]
-Help you?
-I'm here for a room.
Neville said he'd leave a key.
Oh, Neville said?
Neville said.
Come around. I'll buzz you in.
[door buzzes]
[Raymond] What about the dog?
[man] There's no dog.
Is this kosher?
L'chaim.
Okay.
There's a bench outside.
Have a seat.
Concierge will be with you shortly.
[cell phone dialing]
I'm supposed to let you go.
But your resistance is an inspiration.
It makes me wonder...
are you really that beholden to him?
Would you hold out until it's too late?
I guess we'll never know.
Get back in there. I won't ask again.
[yells]
[groaning]
Antidote.
[cell phone ringing]
-Dembe.
-Don't do it, Raymond. I'm coming.
Don't give yourself up.
[dramatic music playing]
[cell phone ringing]
[Dembe] Tell me you got there in time.
-Tell me you found him.
-No. We were too late.
-What did you find?
-We're securing the scene.
It looks like her people
broke everything down and cleared out.
There's no sign of Reddington.
Is there anything that you can tell me,
any specifics, details that might help?
She had tools for torture.
Then she injected me
with a vial of poison, from jellyfish.
Jellyfish?
Irukandji jellyfish.
That's what she called them.
I reached out to some associates of ours
to find out who traffics them.
All right. We'll--
Look, my forensics team's here.
Call me as soon as you hear anything
and I'll do the same.
I'm impressed.
You kept your end of the deal.
And in a roundabout way, so did I.
Dembe escaped.
Yes. As promised, he's free.
And with him
went your leverage to get me to talk.
Oh, I don't know about that.
The Brazen Bull, I presume.
Excellent.
You're familiar with Dr. Perillos.
Certainly.
Legendarily draconian methods.
Undeniably effective results.
This is almost
a bucket-list moment for me.
-Shall we begin?
-Oh, let's not.
Are you familiar
with lymphocytic choriomeningitis?
If I say yes,
can we skip the demonstration?
It's a viral infection carried by mice
that causes ascending paralysis.
The virus attacks
the peripheral nervous system,
then works its way upwards
through the legs
and torso to the chest.
Where it paralyzes the lungs...
causing the victim to suffocate.
Careful. I'm terribly ticklish.
[chuckles] See?
There is an antidote. Which I will supply
after you've told me about the archive.
Uh... Think about it. But not too long.
You haven't got much time left.
What did you find out?
I haven't heard back from our people yet.
It turns out Irukandji jellyfish
are sourced only by a few select brokers.
-Brokers.
-Who sell animals to research labs,
universities, veterinary schools,
and companies
to provide animal-testing services.
Disgusting, I know. And it gets worse.
There are two types of these dealers.
Class A, which breed specifically
for research purposes,
and Class B, who source animals
from random locations like auctions,
pounds or even newspaper ads.
-That is disgusting.
-[Aram] Right?
Like there's a separate
Blacklist case here.
[Cooper] The point being?
The point being,
I could only find three Class B vendors
who supply our species of jellyfish.
Two haven't made a sale
in over six months.
[Dembe] And the third?
The third is Tolofson-Hammond.
London-based. License revoked.
They have a court case pending,
and one client who failed to appear...
-That's her.
-[Park] Kayla Lynne Banks.
Last known address in Cardiff.
Both of which are fakes.
Okay, let's work backwards.
Unwind her alias.
Find out where she got her passports,
her bank accounts.
How she built this false identity.
It may point us to where she is now.
Nothing?
No pain at all?
Good.
And here I thought you fetishized pain.
No more than an oncologist
fetishizes cancer.
I study it in the hopes
of finding a cure for it.
I don't believe you.
I think you enjoy the means too much
to really care about the end.
I'm not talking about a medicine.
I'm talking about a solution.
An alteration in our DNA.
Did you know the mole rat
can't feel burning pain
because it lacks the chemical substance P?
You want people to be like mole rats?
I want us to be impervious to pain.
What a terrible idea.
Spoken like someone
who's never had his pain ignored.
Who's never begged for relief
and not gotten it.
I'd prefer to have my pain ignored
than have no pain at all.
Without pain,
there can be no real pleasure.
Without the lows,
you have no way to measure the highs.
If any part of your
sadism-in-the-name-of-science
is designed
to improve the human condition...
making us unfeeling is absolutely
the wrong way of going about it.
[grunts]
Case in point.
This is gonna make killing you
infinitely more pleasurable.
We're ready.
How much time does he have?
An hour, maybe less.
So the archive...
Like the minister says at every wedding,
speak now or forever hold your peace.
[knocking on door]
Is there anything on the APB?
Not yet. And on your end?
I called everyone,
everything's taking too long.
There must be something
they missed at the scene.
We've reviewed
all the crime-scene analysis,
plus what we found
or didn't find at the van.
We should go through it again.
You take the forensics from the van,
I'll review the findings from the lab.
Don't take this the wrong way,
but... you'd make a good cop.
-You know what I do for a living.
-I do.
I also know who you are.
A Black Muslim.
That describes quite a few cops.
-We will find Raymond.
-Hope you're right.
But he lives on the edge.
And one day, he may go over it.
[suspenseful music playing]
The report says the van
was burned using an accelerant.
That's right, uh...
Cyclohexane.
Which burns at a low flash point.
That's why there were no forensics.
What does that tell you?
That the absence of evidence is evidence.
[Raymond wheezing]
It's not everything
you thought it would be, is it?
This moment?
You've waited for it...
anticipated it.
But somehow, it's...
dissatisfying.
It actually exceeds expectation.
I wasn't talking to you.
We know who my assassin really is...
don't we, Elizabeth?
It saddens me to bear witness...
to this moment in your life.
This...
crossing of a Rubicon...
from which you can never get back.
I know, in this moment, it may appear...
self-serving to suggest...
that you instruct...
the good doctor
to administer the antidote.
But I strongly suggest
that you do just that.
Because I've...
seen the other side of that river...
and it's a place...
I never...
never wanted you to go.
[knocking on door]
Who is it?
I said--
Dembe, wait. Hold up.
Cyclohexane.
Your accelerant.
You used it to help them torch the van.
Wait. Stop.
You set us up!
They tortured me!
My hand!
-They made me to do it.
-Where is he?
They weren't supposed to take you.
They want Reddington.
They have him.
Ruddiger. Look at me!
I'm gonna make
what that woman did to your hand
feel like a manicure unless you tell me
where they're holding Raymond.
-Ruddiger.
-The warehouse!
East of the airport. Braxton and 9th.
The radiator, tie yourself to it.
-Dembe, please.
-Now!
[grunting]
He's not coming back.
He's not coming back!
[gasping]
What you're experiencing
is unilateral paralysis.
Your diaphragm is partially functioning,
as the paralysis moves higher
into the chest cavity.
Soon, your diaphragm
will be completely paralyzed
and you will need a machine
to assist in breathing.
Unfortunately for you, we have no machine.
But I do have this.
The doctor's antidote
takes immediate effect.
You'll be breathing normally
within seconds.
All you need to do first is tell me
what you know about the archive.
-[Cooper] Sorry, say that again?
-8353 Braxton.
I'm writing it down. But before
I send units, I'd like to get inside.
There's no time. I'll explain later.
Just send units.
Dembe, talk to me.
Dembe.
Step away.
[dramatic music playing]
It's okay, Raymond.
What have you done?
[Townsend] Aren't you the loving couple?
First, he comes to save you, and now you--
You come to save him, or try to.
I'm afraid you're too late.
Is there an antidote?
The answer is no!
I won't ask twice.
Give it to him.
[gasping]
What's wrong?
I paralyzed his diaphragm.
You came here to save him.
He came here to save himself.
You look at the cause.
I only see the effect.
I'm standing here
while he can barely breathe.
Would Townsend do that for you?
Would anyone?
[Raymond gulps]
I want to know exactly
what you did to him.
[suspenseful music playing]
Tell us about Townsend.
Where he is.
How you contact him.
I don't want you to suffocate.
I have the antidote
and I will give it to you.
But not until you tell us
what we need to know.
Hey, call the EMTs, and search
the building for Reddington and Dembe.
Donald Ressler, FBI.
I'm gonna get you medically cleared,
and then whatever you told Reddington
about Townsend,
well, you're gonna tell me.
Sir?
I'm sorry to wake you.
They're ready for you.
[grunting]
Do you believe her?
That Townsend paid her in cash
and always used a burner phone?
I don't know, I suppose.
I heard from Park.
The video link to Townsend was encrypted.
They're going to try and trace it,
but they're not optimistic.
All of this and going after Perillos
got us nothing.
I think we both know that's not true.
We came for each other.
Do you think that I see your pain?
Do you?
No.
I don't. Not always.
[door opening]
How's the patient?
-He'll be okay.
-Thanks to you.
Good detective work.
-I told you we'd find him.
-You were right.
But so was I.
He lives at the edge,
and one day he will go over it.
You need to be prepared
for when that happens.
We went to Ruddiger's apartment.
He wasn't there.
I got nothing. You?
I left him tied.
Well, he wasn't there.
Neville, that's enough.
That's enough, Neville!
I want you to know...
you're only alive because of Keen.
You understand that, Ruddiger?
She begged me to spare your life.
A life which I now own.
Welcome to the family.
Don't fail me again!
[dramatic music playing]